TOBY WEB DEVELOPER SETUP GUIDE

This guide gets you ready to work on Toby Web for the first time. After completing it, use message.txt for the actual mod-porting instructions.

REPOSITORY

https://github.com/Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web

IMPORTANT ACCESS RULES

- You work through GitHub only.
- Always work on your own branch.
- Never push directly to main.
- Never merge your own pull request.
- Never deploy to Cloudflare R2, AWS, or another hosting provider.
- Never modify Cloudflare Workers, DNS, domains, buckets, or Wrangler settings.
- Camzzz reviews, merges, and deploys finished work.

1. CREATE OR PREPARE YOUR GITHUB ACCOUNT

1. Sign in to your personal GitHub account at https://github.com/.
2. Send your exact GitHub username to Camzzz.
3. Camzzz must invite that account as a collaborator on Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web.
4. Check your GitHub notifications and email for the repository invitation.
5. Accept the invitation before attempting to push a branch.
6. Enable two-factor authentication on your GitHub account if GitHub requires it.

2. INSTALL THE REQUIRED SOFTWARE

Install:

- GitHub Desktop: https://desktop.github.com/
- Git for Windows: https://git-scm.com/download/win
- Python 3: https://www.python.org/downloads/windows/
- A code editor, preferably Visual Studio Code: https://code.visualstudio.com/
- A Chromium-based browser such as Microsoft Edge, Chrome, or the Codex browser

During Python installation, enable the option named "Add Python to PATH."

After installation, open PowerShell and verify:

git --version
python --version

If `python` is not recognized, try:

py --version

3. CONFIGURE GITHUB DESKTOP

1. Open GitHub Desktop.
2. Sign in using the GitHub account that accepted the collaborator invitation.
3. Open File > Options > Git.
4. Set your real name or preferred developer name.
5. Set the email associated with your GitHub account.
6. Do not use Camzzz's GitHub account, credentials, tokens, or email.

4. CLONE TOBY WEB

Using GitHub Desktop:

1. Choose File > Clone repository.
2. Select the URL tab.
3. Enter:

   https://github.com/Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web.git

4. Choose a local folder you can easily find.
5. Click Clone.
6. Do not download the repository as a ZIP. A ZIP does not include the Git history or branch configuration needed for collaboration.

5. CONFIRM THE REPOSITORY IS CORRECT

In GitHub Desktop, confirm:

- Current repository is Toby-Web.
- Current branch is main.
- Origin points to Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web.

You can also open PowerShell inside the repository and run:

git remote -v
git status

The remote should reference:

https://github.com/Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web.git

Do not start editing if the remote points to a different repository.

6. UPDATE MAIN BEFORE STARTING WORK

Before creating a branch:

1. Select the main branch in GitHub Desktop.
2. Click Fetch origin.
3. If GitHub Desktop shows Pull origin, click it.
4. Confirm the working tree has no uncommitted changes.

Never overwrite or discard changes you do not understand. Ask Camzzz before removing another developer's work.

7. CREATE YOUR DEVELOPMENT BRANCH

Create one branch for the assigned mod.

In GitHub Desktop:

1. Select Current branch.
2. Click New branch.
3. Create the branch from main.
4. Use a short lowercase name such as:

   port-mod-name

Examples:

port-aqua-over-frisk
port-new-dragon
fix-mobile-controls

5. Click Publish branch after creating it.

Do not work directly on main.

8. OPEN THE PROJECT

In GitHub Desktop, use Repository > Open in Visual Studio Code.

Before editing, read:

- TODO.md
- message.txt
- index.html
- dltrn.html
- tobywebsinglefile.html
- files/mobile-controls.js

Also inspect an existing port that uses the same engine as the assigned project.

9. START THE LOCAL TEST SERVER

The site must be tested through localhost, never by opening an HTML file directly.

Open PowerShell in the Toby-Web repository folder and run one of these commands:

python -m http.server 2000

If that does not work, use:

py -m http.server 2000

Keep that PowerShell window open while testing.

Open:

http://localhost:2000/dltrn.html

To stop the server, focus the PowerShell window and press Ctrl+C.

If port 2000 is already occupied, stop the old server rather than silently testing on a different port.

10. WORKING SAFELY

- Make small, focused changes.
- Keep all port files inside files/<port-name>/.
- Do not delete unrelated files.
- Do not reorganize the repository unless Camzzz requested it.
- Do not commit downloaded archives, installers, tools, screenshots, browser profiles, logs, or temporary extraction folders.
- Do not commit passwords, cookies, tokens, API keys, or account files.
- Do not use Git commands such as `git reset --hard` unless Camzzz explicitly approves it.
- Do not force-push.
- Do not rewrite shared Git history.

11. REVIEW CHANGES BEFORE COMMITTING

In GitHub Desktop, inspect every changed file.

Make sure:

- Only files related to the assignment changed.
- No temporary or personal files are included.
- No file exceeds GitHub's 100 MB hard limit.
- The launcher still works.
- The port has been tested through its actual card in dltrn.html.

Open PowerShell in the repository and run:

git status
git diff --check

`git diff --check` should finish without reporting errors.

12. COMMIT AND PUSH THE BRANCH

In GitHub Desktop:

1. Review the changed-file list again.
2. Uncheck any file that does not belong in the port.
3. Write a short commit summary, for example:

   Add Aqua over Frisk port

4. Click Commit to your branch.
5. Click Push origin.

Do not push the commit directly to main.

13. OPEN A PULL REQUEST

After pushing:

1. Click Create Pull Request in GitHub Desktop.
2. Confirm the base repository is Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web.
3. Confirm the base branch is main.
4. Confirm the compare branch is your development branch.
5. Give the pull request a clear title.

The pull-request description must include:

- Mod name and version
- Original source link
- Engine and runner used
- What was added or changed
- Testing performed
- Credits
- Known bugs or limitations
- Any files Camzzz must obtain separately

6. Create the pull request.
7. Send the pull-request link to Camzzz.
8. Do not merge it yourself.

14. RESPOND TO REVIEW CHANGES

If Camzzz requests changes:

1. Keep using the same branch.
2. Make the requested changes locally.
3. Test them again.
4. Commit and push them to the same branch.
5. The existing pull request updates automatically.

Do not open a second pull request for fixes to the same assignment.

15. KEEP A LONG-RUNNING BRANCH UPDATED

If main changes while you are working:

1. Commit or safely stash your work first.
2. In GitHub Desktop, switch to main.
3. Fetch and pull origin.
4. Switch back to your development branch.
5. Use Branch > Update from main.
6. Resolve any conflicts carefully.

If a conflict involves launcher files or another developer's work and the correct result is unclear, stop and ask Camzzz. Do not choose a side at random or delete both versions.

16. AFTER THE PULL REQUEST IS MERGED

After Camzzz merges the pull request:

1. Switch back to main.
2. Fetch and pull the latest version.
3. Delete the old development branch only after confirming the pull request was merged.
4. Create a fresh branch from the updated main branch for the next assignment.

Do not reuse an old merged branch for a new port.

READY CHECK

You are ready to begin when all of these are true:

- You accepted the collaborator invitation.
- GitHub Desktop is signed into your own account.
- Toby-Web is cloned with full Git history.
- The origin remote is Camzzz-vrgt/Toby-Web.
- Your local main branch is current.
- You created and published a separate development branch.
- Python can run the localhost server on port 2000.
- http://localhost:2000/dltrn.html loads successfully.
- You have read message.txt and understand the porting requirements.

After completing this setup, follow message.txt for the full mod-porting workflow.
